Azure functions documentation changes (#4452)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-functions.md

---
id: azure-functions
title: Azure Functions
sidebar_label: Azure Functions
description: The Sumo Logic app for Azure Functions helps you monitor activity in Azure Functions.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-functions.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="75"/>

Reviewer: 75px is pretty massive -- the large size pushes down the written content

```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-functions.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="45"/>
```

[Azure Functions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview) is a serverless solution that allows you to write less code, maintain less infrastructure, and save on costs. This integration helps in monitoring the health, tracking executions, and estimating cost of your function apps.

## Log and metric types

The Sumo Logic app for Azure Functions app uses the following log types:

> * FunctionApplicationLogs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `FunctionApplicationLogs`
```

> * AppServiceAuthenticationLogs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `AppServiceAuthenticationLogs`
```

> * AllMetrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `AllMetrics`
```

---
id: azure-functions
title: Azure Functions
sidebar_label: Azure Functions

> description: The Sumo Logic app for Azure Functions helps you monitor activity in Azure Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The Sumo Logic app for Azure Functions enables seamless integration and monitoring of Azure Functions, providing insights and analytics to optimize serverless application performance and security.
```

   1. Choose `Stream to an event hub` as the destination.
   1. Select `AllMetrics`.
   1. Use the Event Hub namespace and Event Hub name configured in previous step in destination details section. You can use the default policy `RootManageSharedAccessKey` as the policy name.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Functions-Configure-Diagnostic-Metrics.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
1. Tag the location field in the source with right location value.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400" />

#### Activity logs (optional)

To collect activity logs, follow the instructions [here](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit). If you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription, do not perform this step.

:::note
Since this source contains logs from multiple regions, make sure that you do not tag this source with the location tag.
:::

##### Enabling Microsoft Defender for Cloud

> For Security events, make sure you enable [Microsoft Defender for Cloud](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/tutorial-enable-app-service-plan#enable-the-defender-for-app-service-plan). If you have an existing settings, click **Edit Settings**.

Reviewer 2: Can you be bit more elaborate. The steps/UI in the screenshots do not match easily with the content here.

Author: Done

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Microsoft-Cloud-Defender-Edit-Settings.png')} alt="Edit Settings" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Microsoft-Cloud-Defender-Plans-AppService.png')} alt="Cloud Defender Plans" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

##### Enabling health check metric

> For getting health check metric, make sure you enable health check in the Monitoring tab.

Reviewer 2: Add a red colored box to the focus point in the page.

> For getting health check metric, make sure you enable health check in the Monitoring tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For getting health check metric, make sure you enable **Health check** under the **Monitoring** dropdown.
```

### Memory

The **Azure Functions - Memory** dashboard provides information on memory usage and consumption by your Azure Functions. This includes metrics on memory allocation, usage patterns, and any potential memory issues.

Use this dashboard to:
* Monitor memory consumption and efficiency of your Azure Functions.
* Identify and address memory-related performance issues.
* Analyze trends in memory usage to optimize function performance.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-Memory.png')} alt="Azure Functions Memory dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### Network

The **Azure Functions - Network** dashboard provides details on network traffic and connectivity related to your Azure Functions. This includes data on inbound and outbound traffic, network latency, and potential network issues.

Use this dashboard to:
* Track network activity and performance of your Azure Functions.
* Diagnose network-related issues and connectivity problems.
* Monitor network usage and optimize network configuration.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-Network.png')} alt="Azure Functions Network dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: Crop the extra space in the screenshot.

Author: Done

### Operations

The **Azure Functions - Operations** dashboard provides an overview of operational metrics and activities related to your Azure Functions. This includes I/O Read, Write bytes/second and I/O Read, Write operations/second.

Use this dashboard to:
* Monitor the operational status and health of your Azure Functions.
* Review deployment activities and execution metrics.
* Analyze operational trends and optimize function management.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-Operations.png')} alt="Azure Functions Operations dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: Crop the extra space in the dashboard image.

Author: Done

### OS Statistics

The **Azure Functions - OS Statistics** dashboard provides information on operating system metrics and statistics relevant to your Azure Functions. This includes details on current assemblies, number of processor threads and other OS-level performance indicators.

Use this dashboard to:
* Track OS-level performance metrics impacting your Azure Functions.
* Monitor Current assemblies, threads, and handles for optimal performance.
* Identify and address OS-related performance issues.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-OS-Statistics.png')} alt="Azure Functions OS Statistics dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### Performance

The **Azure Functions - Performance** dashboard provides insights into the performance of your Azure Functions. This includes metrics on execution times, throughput, and overall function efficiency.

Use this dashboard to:
* Monitor and analyze the performance of your Azure Functions.
* Identify performance bottlenecks and optimize function execution.
* Review performance metrics and trends to ensure optimal function performance.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-Performance.png')} alt="Azure Functions Performance dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: Crop the extra space in the dashboard image.

Author: Done

### Health

The **Azure Functions - Health** dashboard provides information of any service health incidents or resource health events associated with Azure Functions in your azure account.

Use this dashboard to:
* View recent resource and service health incidents.
* View distribution of service and resource health by incident type.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-Health.png')} alt="Azure Functions health dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: Please export the PNG file of the dashboard and add it to S3 bucket. The image added here looks like a normal screenshot, which actually got widened and the words are not clear in the preview page.

Author: Done

### Policy and Recommendations

The **Azure Functions - Policy and Recommendations** dashboard provides information of all effect action operations performed by Azure policy and recommendations events from Azure Advisor.

Use this dashboard to:
* Monitor policy events with warnings and errors.
* View recent failed policy events.
* View total recommendation events.
* Identify High Impact recommendations.
* View recent recommendation events and navigate to the affected resource.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-Policy-and-Recommendations.png')} alt="Azure Functions - Policy and Recommendations dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: Please export the PNG file of the dashboard and add it to S3 bucket. The image added here looks like a normal screenshot, which actually got widened and the words are not clear in the preview page.

Author: Done

### Administrative Operations

The **Azure SQL - Administrative Operations** dashboard provides details on read/write/delete specific changes, different operations used, top 10 operations that caused most errors, and users performing admin operations.

Use this dashboard to:
* Identify top users performing administrative operations.
* View Top 10 operations that caused the most errors.
* View recent read, write, and delete operations.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Functions/Azure-Functions-Administrative-Operations.png')} alt="Azure Functions Administrative Operations dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: Please export the PNG file of the dashboard and add it to S3 bucket. The image added here looks like a normal screenshot, which actually got widened and the words are not clear in the preview page.

Author: Done

   1. Choose `Stream to an event hub` as the destination.
   1. Select `AllMetrics`.
   1. Use the Event Hub namespace and Event Hub name configured in previous step in destination details section. You can use the default policy `RootManageSharedAccessKey` as the policy name.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Functions-Configure-Diagnostic-Metrics.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
1. Tag the location field in the source with right location value.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400" />

#### Activity logs (optional)

To collect activity logs, follow the instructions [here](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit). If you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription, do not perform this step.

:::note
Since this source contains logs from multiple regions, make sure that you do not tag this source with the location tag.
:::

##### Enabling Microsoft Defender for Cloud

> For Security events, make sure you enable [Microsoft Defender for Cloud](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/azure-defender-for-sql?view=azuresql#enable-microsoft-defender-for-sql). If you have an existing settings, click **Edit Settings**.

Reviewer 3: update the link, the above link is for azure sql

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Microsoft-Cloud-Defender-Edit-Settings.png')} alt="Edit Settings" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Microsoft-Cloud-Defender-Plans-AppService.png')} alt="Cloud Defender Plans" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

##### Enabling health check metric

For getting health check metric, make sure you enable health check in the Monitoring tab.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Enable-Health-Check-Metric.png')} alt="Cloud Defender Plans" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 3: update alt text to enable health check metric

Author: Done @himanshu219

### Configure field in field schema
1. <!--Kanso [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui/). Kanso--> In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Manage Data > Logs > Fields**. <!--Kanso <br/>[**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-new/). In the top menu select **Configuration**, and then under **Logs** select **Fields**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Fields**. Kanso-->
2. Search for following fields:
   - `tenant_name`. This field is tagged at the collector level and you can get the tenant name using the instructions [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/tenant-management-read-tenant-name#get-your-tenant-name).
   - `location`. The region to which the resource name belongs to.
   - `subscription_id`. Id associated with a subscription where resource is present.
   - `resource_group`. The resource group name where the Azure resource is present.
   - `provider_name`. Azure resource provider name (for example, Microsoft.WEB).
   - `resource_type`. Azure resource type (for example, SITES).
   - `resource_name`. The name of the resource (for example, Azure Function App name).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

3. Create the fields if it is not present. Refer to [create and manage fields](/docs/manage/fields/#manage-fields).

### Configure Field Extraction Rules

Create a Field Extraction Rule (FER) by following the instructions [here](/docs/manage/field-extractions/create-field-extraction-rule/). If the FER already exists with same name, then skip this step.

> * **Azure Location Extraction FER**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

import AppInstall2 from '../../reuse/apps/app-install-v2.md';

<AppInstall2/>

## Viewing the Azure Functions dashboards

import ViewDashboards from '../../reuse/apps/view-dashboards.md';

<ViewDashboards/>

### Overview

The **Azure Functions - Overview** dashboard provides information of any service health incidents or resource health events associated with Azure Functions in your azure account.

Use this dashboard to:
* View recent resource and service health incidents.
* View distribution of service and resource health by incident type.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-SQL/Azure-SQL-Health.png')} alt="Azure SQL health dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### Cost

The **Azure Functions - Cost** dashboard provides information on the expenses associated with your Azure Functions. This includes details on the cost of resources, usage trends, and cost management insights.

Use this dashboard to:
* Monitor and analyze your spending on Azure Functions.
* Review cost trends and identify areas where you can optimize spending.
* Access detailed billing information and cost breakdowns.

> 

Reviewer 2: Don't we have dashboard images for rest of the dashboards?

Reviewer 3: yes we do have, @ankurch627  will update the urls

### Configure logs collection

#### Diagnostic logs

In this section, you will configure a pipeline for shipping diagnostic logs from [Azure Monitor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/monitoring-get-started) to an Event Hub.

1. To set up the Azure Event Hubs source in Sumo Logic, refer to the [Azure Event Hubs Source for Logs](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/ms-azure-event-hubs-source/).

> 1. To create the Diagnostic settings in Azure portal, refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/data-factory/monitor-configure-diagnostics). Perform below steps for each Azure Functions that you want to monitor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To create the **Diagnostic setting** in the Azure portal, refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/data-factory/monitor-configure-diagnostics). Perform the below steps for each Azure Functions that you want to monitor.
```

>    * Choose `Stream to an event hub` as the destination.

Reviewer 2: Please add numbered bulletins as these are a series of steps which needs to be performed.

   * Select `AllMetrics`.
   * Use the Event hub namespace and Event hub name configured in previous step in destination details section. You can use the default policy `RootManageSharedAccessKey` as the policy name.

   <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Functions-Configure-Diagnostic-Metrics.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

1. Tag the location field in the source with right location value.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400" />

> #### Activity Logs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Activity Logs (Optional)
```

To collect activity logs, follow the instructions [here](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit). If you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription, do not perform this step.

:::note
Since this source contains logs from multiple regions, make sure that you do not tag this source with the location tag.
:::

##### Enabling Microsoft Defender for Cloud

> :::note

Reviewer 2: No need to add this as a part of note as this is the only availbale content under this section.

For Security events, make sure you enable [Microsoft Defender for Cloud](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/azure-defender-for-sql?view=azuresql#enable-microsoft-defender-for-sql). If you have an existing settings, click **Edit Settings**.
:::

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Microsoft-Cloud-Defender-Edit-Settings.png')} alt="Edit Settings" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Microsoft-Cloud-Defender-Plans-AppService.png')} alt="Cloud Defender Plans" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

##### Enabling Health Check Metric

> :::note

Reviewer 2: No need to add this as a part of note as this is the only availbale content under this section.

> For getting health check metric, make sure you enable health check by going to Monitoring tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For getting health check metric, make sure you enable health check in the Monitoring tab.
```

:::

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Enable-Health-Check-Metric.png')} alt="Cloud Defender Plans" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

## Installing the Azure Functions app

This section provides instructions on how to install the Azure Functions app, and shows examples of each of the preconfigured dashboards you can use to analyze your data.

import AppInstall2 from '../../reuse/apps/app-install-v2.md';

<AppInstall2/>

## Upgrading the Azure Functions app (Optional)

import AppUpdate from '../../reuse/apps/app-update.md';

<AppUpdate/>

## Uninstalling the Azure Functions app (Optional)

import AppUninstall from '../../reuse/apps/app-uninstall.md';

<AppUninstall/>

## Viewing the Azure Functions dashboards

import ViewDashboards from '../../reuse/apps/view-dashboards.md';

<ViewDashboards/>

### Overview

> The **Azure Functions - Overview** dashboard provides information of any service health incidents or resource health events associated with Azure Functions in your azure account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Azure Functions - Overview** dashboard provides a comprehensive information of all the service health incidents or resource health events associated with Azure Functions in your azure account.
```

Use this dashboard to:
    * View recent resource and service health incidents.
    * View distribution of service and resource health by incident type.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-SQL/Azure-SQL-Health.png')} alt="Azure SQL health dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### Cost

> The **Azure Functions - Cost** dashboard provides information on the expenses associated with your Azure Functions. This includes details on the cost of resources, usage trends, and cost management insights.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Azure Functions - Cost** dashboard provides information about the expenses associated with your Azure Functions. This includes details on the cost of resources, usage trends, and cost management insights.
```
